# HTML Support

As said in the introduction, MarkdownDoc generates both HTML and PDF, but in either case it goes directly from parsing the markdown to generating the target format using a markdown document model between parser and generators. That means that HTML is just one target format. It is not an intermediate between other target formats. Thereby only markdown, and not HTML is supported in input. There are however a few exceptions to that.

## &nbsp;

This is recognized as a special space. It will not be reacted on for code blocks for example. Thereby it can be used to indent text without creating a code block when the indent reaches 4 spaces.

## HTML comments

These are recognized, parsed and passed along in model. It is upp to generator to decide to generate comments or not. T
he HTMLGenerator do generate comments, as do the MarkdownGenerator. The PDFGenerator does not for obvious reasons.

I think it is nice to be able to have comments in documents. Comment blocks are also used to hide other MarkdownDoc special features also. For example options annotations. 

## Divs

HTML div tags are supported and will be generated by HTMLGenerator. But the PDFGenerator can also make use of div tags. As of version 1.4 the PDFGenerator makes use of a JSON based markdown stylesheet I've called MSS. In MSS you can also define styles in divs that will only apply to text within those div blocks. This allows for great styling flexibility also to PDF documents.

Due to a GitHub feature that stops markdown rendering between divs in markdown documents I've implemented 2 ways of specifying the divs:

    <div class="class">
        ...
    </div>

or

    <!-- @Div("class") -->
        ...
    <!-- @EndDiv -->

The latter does not affect GitHub. In either usage the HTMLGenerator will generate a correct HTML div, while the MarkdownGenerator will generate the comment variant, and the PDFGenerator will not generate anything, but will use the divs to affect styling via MSS.

The div has to be the only thing on the line, both start and end tag! Also, there can be a maximum of 3 spaces before the div tag. If there are 4 or more it will become a code block!

__Note:__ that the HTML div variant will have to look exactly like the example above. Only `class="..."` is allowed in the tag! The start div will not be recognized if you add more to it, and there will be confusion when the end tag is seen in that case.


   

