Library/src/test/resources/test.md, before:

<!--
    This is a comment!

    @PDFTitle("Test of iText PDF generating")
    @PDFSubject("PDF generation")
    @PDFKeywords("Test inline")
    @PDFVersion(1.0)
    @PDFAuthor("Tommy Svensson")
    @PDFCopyright("Copyright (C) 2012 Natusoft AB")
    @PDFTitlePageImage("/tommy.jpg:260.0:400.0")

-->
# Headers

This is the ** headers section of the functional test document.

## Two

This is a paragraph in a level 2 section.

### In Raleway external ttf font

#### In Tuffy external ttf font

##### Five

###### Six

Test of underline header H1
===========================

Test of underline header H2
---------------------------

Garbage since we want the code block to page break.

werewrwe

werweqrwqe

qwerwerw

werwer

qwerweqrqwer

qweqwre

qwerweqr

# Code Blocks

Here is a code Block:

    class Paragraph extends DocItem {

        /**
         * Adds an item to the Paragraph.
         *
         * @param docItem The item to add.
         */
        public void add(DocItem docItem) {
            super.items.add(docItem)
        }

        @Override
        public boolean validate() {
            return super.items.size() > 0
        }
    }

End of code block.

# BlockQuote

> This is
> a block
> quoted paragraph.

> This is also
  a block quoted
  paragraph!

> This is a block quoted one line paragraph.

# List

* Unordered list

* Second entry

  * List within list.

  * Second entry sub list

* Third entry orig list.
  This line is part of the same list entry.

* Fourth entry orig list.

  This entry has two paragraphs.

  * New sub list uo

  * New sub list l2 uo

&nbsp;

1. Ordered list

1. Second entry ol

   1. sub entry ol

   1. sub entry 2 ol

1. Third entry orig ol.

# Horizontal ruler

---

This is a paragraph between 2 horizontal rulers.

---

# Paragraphs

This is a simple one line paragraph.

<div class="qaz">

A paragraph is simply one or more consecutive lines of text, separated by one or more blank lines.
(A blank line is any line that looks like a blank line — a line containing nothing but spaces or
tabs is considered blank.) Normal paragraphs should not be indented with spaces or tabs.

> A little block quote within a div.

</div>

This is a _formatting_ __Paragraph__. Here is [a link](http://to.somewhere.net/).

This paragraph
also contains a `simple code block`. This is some more text because I want `another code block` breaking line.

Here is a feature best illustrated with a rat and some latin:

<div class="rat">

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet,
consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla non velit feugiat neque maximus ultricies.
![image](http://65.media.tumblr.com/07de24dd41bc31f53462f7e600c7418a/tumblr_inline_nupsstqiqk1ty84t8_500.png)
Aenean sed elit lectus. Donec fermentum dapibus dapibus.
Cras facilisis odio at dolor ultricies, eu pharetra leo tristique. 

Vivamus placerat, dui et fringilla vestibulum, libero velit dignissim
orci, varius laoreet nunc arcu non enim. Vestibulum ornare justo ante, eu sodales metus congue vitae. 

Nulla consectetur purus justo, nec
finibus mi congue eget. Praesent ac dignissim ligula, sit amet pharetra ligula.

Vestibulum ante ipsum primis in faucibus orci luctus et ultrices posuere cubilia Curae; Etiam sit amet risus id augue 
imperdiet ornare. Sed velit augue, laoreet.

</div>

Some more text in new paragraph. <www.somewhere.net> ends this paragraph.

\* This is not a list since the \'\*\' is escaped!

![imageref]

Some other text between the image reference and the image declaration.

[imageref]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dcurtis/markdown-mark/master/png/32x20-solid.png

<!--

-->

Commit message:

mdd-32 Change PDF rendering from iText to Apache PDFBox. - Added support for section numbers and special MSS settings for the seciton numbers. The section numbers can have different left margin than other text and can also have a different Y offset.

Library/src/test/resources/test.md, after:

<!--
    This is a comment!

    @PDFTitle("Test of iText PDF generating")
    @PDFSubject("PDF generation")
    @PDFKeywords("Test inline")
    @PDFVersion(1.0)
    @PDFAuthor("Tommy Svensson")
    @PDFCopyright("Copyright (C) 2012 Natusoft AB")
    @PDFTitlePageImage("/tommy.jpg:260.0:400.0")

-->
# Headers

This is the ** headers section of the functional test document.

## Two

This is a paragraph in a level 2 section.

### In Raleway external ttf font

Some text.

#### In Tuffy external ttf font

Some text.

##### Five

Some text.

###### Six

Some text.

Test of underline header H1
===========================

Test of underline header H2
---------------------------

Garbage since we want the code block to page break.

qwerweqrqwer

qweqwre

qwerweqr

# Code Blocks

Here is a code Block:

    class Paragraph extends DocItem {

        /**
         * Adds an item to the Paragraph.
         *
         * @param docItem The item to add.
         */
        public void add(DocItem docItem) {
            super.items.add(docItem)
        }

        @Override
        public boolean validate() {
            return super.items.size() > 0
        }
    }

End of code block.

# BlockQuote

> This is
> a block
> quoted paragraph.

> This is also
  a block quoted
  paragraph!

> This is a block quoted one line paragraph.

# List

* Unordered list

* Second entry

  * List within list.

  * Second entry sub list

* Third entry orig list.
  This line is part of the same list entry.

* Fourth entry orig list.

  This entry has two paragraphs.

  * New sub list uo

  * New sub list l2 uo

&nbsp;

1. Ordered list

1. Second entry ol

   1. sub entry ol

   1. sub entry 2 ol

1. Third entry orig ol.

# Horizontal ruler

---

This is a paragraph between 2 horizontal rulers.

---

# Paragraphs

This is a simple one line paragraph.

<div class="qaz">

A paragraph is simply one or more consecutive lines of text, separated by one or more blank lines.
(A blank line is any line that looks like a blank line — a line containing nothing but spaces or
tabs is considered blank.) Normal paragraphs should not be indented with spaces or tabs.

> A little block quote within a div.

</div>

This is a _formatting_ __Paragraph__. Here is [a link](http://to.somewhere.net/).

This paragraph
also contains a `simple code block`. This is some more text because I want `another code block` breaking line.

Here is a feature best illustrated with a rat and some latin:

<div class="rat">

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet,
consectetur adipiscing elit. Nulla non velit feugiat neque maximus ultricies.
![image](http://65.media.tumblr.com/07de24dd41bc31f53462f7e600c7418a/tumblr_inline_nupsstqiqk1ty84t8_500.png)
Aenean sed elit lectus. Donec fermentum dapibus dapibus.
Cras facilisis odio at dolor ultricies, eu pharetra leo tristique.

Vivamus placerat, dui et fringilla vestibulum, libero velit dignissim
orci, varius laoreet nunc arcu non enim. Vestibulum ornare justo ante, eu sodales metus congue vitae.

Nulla consectetur purus justo, nec
finibus mi congue eget. Praesent ac dignissim ligula, sit amet pharetra ligula.

Vestibulum ante ipsum primis in faucibus orci luctus et ultrices posuere cubilia Curae; Etiam sit amet risus id augue
imperdiet ornare. Sed velit augue, laoreet.

</div>

Some more text in new paragraph. <www.somewhere.net> ends this paragraph.

\* This is not a list since the \'\*\' is escaped!

![imageref]

Note that this text does not follow on the right of the image! This is because the 'imgFlow' MSS value is false here.

[imageref]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dcurtis/markdown-mark/master/png/32x20-solid.png

<!--

-->
